website/content/docs/builders/parallels/iso.mdx, before:

---
modeline: |
  vim: set ft=pandoc:
description: |
  The Parallels Packer builder is able to create Parallels Desktop for Mac
  virtual machines and export them in the PVM format, starting from an ISO
  image.
page_title: Parallels ISO - Builders
sidebar_title: ISO
---

# Parallels Builder (from an ISO)

Type: `parallels-iso`

The Parallels Packer builder is able to create [Parallels Desktop for
Mac](https://www.parallels.com/products/desktop/) virtual machines and export
them in the PVM format, starting from an ISO image.

The builder builds a virtual machine by creating a new virtual machine from
scratch, booting it, installing an OS, provisioning software within the OS, then
shutting it down. The result of the Parallels builder is a directory containing
all the files necessary to run the virtual machine portably.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is not functional. It will start the OS
installer but then fail because we don't provide the preseed file for Ubuntu to
self-install. Still, the example serves to show the basic configuration:

```json
{
  "type": "parallels-iso",
  "guest_os_type": "ubuntu",
  "iso_url": "http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/ubuntu-12.04.3-server-amd64.iso",
  "iso_checksum": "2cbe868812a871242cdcdd8f2fd6feb9",
  "parallels_tools_flavor": "lin",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_password": "packer",
  "ssh_timeout": "30s",
  "shutdown_command": "echo 'packer' | sudo -S shutdown -P now"
}
```

It is important to add a `shutdown_command`. By default Packer halts the virtual
machine and the file system may not be sync'd. Thus, changes made in a
provisioner might not be saved.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the Parallels builder. They
are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within each
category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/communicators) can be configured for this
builder. In addition to the options defined there, a private key file
can also be supplied to override the typical auto-generated key:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/communicator/SSH-Private-Key-File-not-required.mdx'

## ISO Configuration Reference

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig.mdx'

### Required:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig-required.mdx'

### Optional:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig-not-required.mdx'

### Required:

- `parallels_tools_flavor` (string) - The flavor of the Parallels Tools ISO to
  install into the VM. Valid values are "win", "lin", "mac", "os2"
  and "other". This can be omitted only if `parallels_tools_mode`
  is "disable".

### Optional:

- `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
  when the virtual machine is first booted. The goal of these commands should
  be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
  keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the
  boot command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will
  start itself.

- `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
  machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
  a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
  five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't
  specified, the default is 10 seconds.

- `cpus` (number) - The number of cpus to use for building the VM.
  Defaults to `1`.

- `disk_size` (number) - The size, in megabytes, of the hard disk to create
  for the VM. By default, this is 40000 (about 40 GB).

- `disk_type` (string) - The type for image file based virtual disk drives,
  defaults to `expand`. Valid options are `expand` (expanding disk) that the
  image file is small initially and grows in size as you add data to it, and
  `plain` (plain disk) that the image file has a fixed size from the moment it
  is created (i.e the space is allocated for the full drive). Plain disks
  perform faster than expanding disks. `skip_compaction` will be set to true
  automatically for plain disks.

- `floppy_files` (array of strings) - A list of files to place onto a floppy
  disk that is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for
  unattended Windows installs, which look for an `Autounattend.xml` file on
  removable media. By default, no floppy will be attached. All files listed in
  this setting get placed into the root directory of the floppy and the floppy
  is attached as the first floppy device. Currently, no support exists for
  creating sub-directories on the floppy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?,
  and \[\]) are allowed. Directory names are also allowed, which will add all
  the files found in the directory to the floppy.

- `floppy_dirs` (array of strings) - A list of directories to place onto
  the floppy disk recursively. This is similar to the `floppy_files` option
  except that the directory structure is preserved. This is useful for when
  your floppy disk includes drivers or if you just want to organize it's
  contents as a hierarchy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?, and \[\]) are allowed.

- `floppy_label` (string) - The label to use for the floppy disk that
  is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for cloud-init,
  Kickstart or other early initialization tools, which can benefit from labelled floppy disks.
  By default, the floppy label will be 'packer'.

- `guest_os_type` (string) - The guest OS type being installed. By default
  this is "other", but you can get _dramatic_ performance improvements by
  setting this to the proper value. To view all available values for this run
  `prlctl create x --distribution list`. Setting the correct value hints to
  Parallels Desktop how to optimize the virtual hardware to work best with
  that operating system.

- `hard_drive_interface` (string) - The type of controller that the hard
  drives are attached to, defaults to "sata". Valid options are "sata", "ide",
  and "scsi".

- `host_interfaces` (array of strings) - A list of which interfaces on the
  host should be searched for a IP address. The first IP address found on one
  of these will be used as `{{ .HTTPIP }}` in the `boot_command`. Defaults to
  \["en0", "en1", "en2", "en3", "en4", "en5", "en6", "en7", "en8", "en9",
  "ppp0", "ppp1", "ppp2"\].

- `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an
  HTTP server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that
  will be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
  kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP server
  will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be available
  as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail below.

- `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (number) - These are the minimum and
  maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the
  `http_directory`. Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose
  a randomly available port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want
  to force the HTTP server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum
  port the same. By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

- `memory` (number) - The amount of memory to use for building the VM in
  megabytes. Defaults to `512` megabytes.

- `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
  resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
  If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
  is executed. This directory must not exist or be empty prior to running
  the builder. By default this is "output-BUILDNAME" where "BUILDNAME" is the
  name of the build.

- `parallels_tools_guest_path` (string) - The path in the virtual machine to
  upload Parallels Tools. This only takes effect if `parallels_tools_mode`
  is "upload". This is a [configuration
  template](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine) that has a single
  valid variable: `Flavor`, which will be the value of
  `parallels_tools_flavor`. By default this is `prl-tools-{{.Flavor}}.iso`
  which should upload into the login directory of the user.

- `parallels_tools_mode` (string) - The method by which Parallels Tools are
  made available to the guest for installation. Valid options are "upload",
  "attach", or "disable". If the mode is "attach" the Parallels Tools ISO will
  be attached as a CD device to the virtual machine. If the mode is "upload"
  the Parallels Tools ISO will be uploaded to the path specified by
  `parallels_tools_guest_path`. The default value is "upload".

- `prlctl` (array of array of strings) - Custom `prlctl` commands to execute
  in order to further customize the virtual machine being created. The value
  of this is an array of commands to execute. The commands are executed in the
  order defined in the template. For each command, the command is defined
  itself as an array of strings, where each string represents a single
  argument on the command-line to `prlctl` (but excluding `prlctl` itself).
  Each arg is treated as a [configuration
  template](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine), where the `Name`
  variable is replaced with the VM name. More details on how to use `prlctl`
  are below.

- `prlctl_post` (array of array of strings) - Identical to `prlctl`, except
  that it is run after the virtual machine is shutdown, and before the virtual
  machine is exported.

- `prlctl_version_file` (string) - The path within the virtual machine to
  upload a file that contains the `prlctl` version that was used to create
  the machine. This information can be useful for provisioning. By default
  this is ".prlctl_version", which will generally upload it into the
  home directory.

- `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down the
  machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
  string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine.

- `sound` (boolean) - Specifies whether to enable the sound device when
  building the VM. Defaults to `false`.

- `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing the
  `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down. If it
  doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout is
  "5m", or five minutes.

- `skip_compaction` (boolean) - Virtual disk image is compacted at the end of
  the build process using `prl_disk_tool` utility (except for the case that
  `disk_type` is set to `plain`). In certain rare cases, this might corrupt
  the resulting disk image. If you find this to be the case, you can disable
  compaction using this configuration value.

- `usb` (boolean) - Specifies whether to enable the USB bus when building
  the VM. Defaults to `false`.

- `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the PVM directory for the new
  virtual machine, without the file extension. By default this is
  "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the name of the build.

## Boot Command

The `boot_command` configuration is very important: it specifies the keys to
type when the virtual machine is first booted in order to start the OS
installer. This command is typed after `boot_wait`, which gives the virtual
machine some time to actually load the ISO.

As documented above, the `boot_command` is an array of strings. The strings are
all typed in sequence. It is an array only to improve readability within the
template.

The boot command is "typed" character for character (using the Parallels
Virtualization SDK, see [Parallels Builder](/docs/builders/parallels))
simulating a human actually typing the keyboard.

@include 'builders/boot-command.mdx'

Example boot command. This is actually a working boot command used to start an
Ubuntu 12.04 installer:

```text
[
  "<esc><esc><enter><wait>",
  "/install/vmlinuz noapic ",
  "preseed/url=http://{{ .HTTPIP }}:{{ .HTTPPort }}/preseed.cfg ",
  "debian-installer=en_US auto locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us ",
  "hostname={{ .Name }} ",
  "fb=false debconf/frontend=noninteractive ",
  "keyboard-configuration/modelcode=SKIP keyboard-configuration/layout=USA ",
  "keyboard-configuration/variant=USA console-setup/ask_detect=false ",
  "initrd=/install/initrd.gz -- <enter>;"
]
```

For more examples of various boot commands, see the sample projects from our
[community templates page](/community-tools#templates).

## prlctl Commands

In order to perform extra customization of the virtual machine, a template can
define extra calls to `prlctl` to perform.
[prlctl](http://download.parallels.com/desktop/v9/ga/docs/en_US/Parallels%20Command%20Line%20Reference%20Guide.pdf)
is the command-line interface to Parallels Desktop. It can be used to configure
the advanced virtual machine options.

Extra `prlctl` commands are defined in the template in the `prlctl` section. In the
example below `prlctl` is used to explicitly enable the adaptive hypervisor, and
disable 3d acceleration:

```json
{
  "prlctl": [
    ["set", "{{.Name}}", "--3d-accelerate", "off"],
    ["set", "{{.Name}}", "--adaptive-hypervisor", "on"]
  ]
}
```

The value of `prlctl` is an array of commands to execute. These commands are
executed in the order defined. So in the above example, 3d acceleration will be disabled
first, followed by the command which enables the adaptive hypervisor.

Each command itself is an array of strings, where each string is an argument to
`prlctl`. Each argument is treated as a [template engine](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine). The only available
variable is `Name` which is replaced with the unique name of the VM, which is
required for many `prlctl` calls.

Commit message:

document builder id of artifact for each builder's output on website (#10580)
* document builder id of artifact for each builder's output on website

* document postprocessor artifact ids on website

* Fix links to new communicator page

Co-authored-by: Wilken Rivera <dev@wilkenrivera.com>

website/content/docs/builders/parallels/iso.mdx, after:

---
modeline: |
  vim: set ft=pandoc:
description: |
  The Parallels Packer builder is able to create Parallels Desktop for Mac
  virtual machines and export them in the PVM format, starting from an ISO
  image.
page_title: Parallels ISO - Builders
sidebar_title: ISO
---

# Parallels Builder (from an ISO)

Type: `parallels-iso`
Artifact BuilderId: `packer.parallels`

The Parallels Packer builder is able to create [Parallels Desktop for
Mac](https://www.parallels.com/products/desktop/) virtual machines and export
them in the PVM format, starting from an ISO image.

The builder builds a virtual machine by creating a new virtual machine from
scratch, booting it, installing an OS, provisioning software within the OS, then
shutting it down. The result of the Parallels builder is a directory containing
all the files necessary to run the virtual machine portably.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is not functional. It will start the OS
installer but then fail because we don't provide the preseed file for Ubuntu to
self-install. Still, the example serves to show the basic configuration:

```json
{
  "type": "parallels-iso",
  "guest_os_type": "ubuntu",
  "iso_url": "http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/ubuntu-12.04.3-server-amd64.iso",
  "iso_checksum": "2cbe868812a871242cdcdd8f2fd6feb9",
  "parallels_tools_flavor": "lin",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_password": "packer",
  "ssh_timeout": "30s",
  "shutdown_command": "echo 'packer' | sudo -S shutdown -P now"
}
```

It is important to add a `shutdown_command`. By default Packer halts the virtual
machine and the file system may not be sync'd. Thus, changes made in a
provisioner might not be saved.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the Parallels builder. They
are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within each
category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/communicator) can be configured for this
builder. In addition to the options defined there, a private key file
can also be supplied to override the typical auto-generated key:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/communicator/SSH-Private-Key-File-not-required.mdx'

## ISO Configuration Reference

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig.mdx'

### Required:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig-required.mdx'

### Optional:

@include 'packer-plugin-sdk/multistep/commonsteps/ISOConfig-not-required.mdx'

### Required:

- `parallels_tools_flavor` (string) - The flavor of the Parallels Tools ISO to
  install into the VM. Valid values are "win", "lin", "mac", "os2"
  and "other". This can be omitted only if `parallels_tools_mode`
  is "disable".

### Optional:

- `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
  when the virtual machine is first booted. The goal of these commands should
  be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
  keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the
  boot command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will
  start itself.

- `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
  machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
  a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
  five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't
  specified, the default is 10 seconds.

- `cpus` (number) - The number of cpus to use for building the VM.
  Defaults to `1`.

- `disk_size` (number) - The size, in megabytes, of the hard disk to create
  for the VM. By default, this is 40000 (about 40 GB).

- `disk_type` (string) - The type for image file based virtual disk drives,
  defaults to `expand`. Valid options are `expand` (expanding disk) that the
  image file is small initially and grows in size as you add data to it, and
  `plain` (plain disk) that the image file has a fixed size from the moment it
  is created (i.e the space is allocated for the full drive). Plain disks
  perform faster than expanding disks. `skip_compaction` will be set to true
  automatically for plain disks.

- `floppy_files` (array of strings) - A list of files to place onto a floppy
  disk that is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for
  unattended Windows installs, which look for an `Autounattend.xml` file on
  removable media. By default, no floppy will be attached. All files listed in
  this setting get placed into the root directory of the floppy and the floppy
  is attached as the first floppy device. Currently, no support exists for
  creating sub-directories on the floppy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?,
  and \[\]) are allowed. Directory names are also allowed, which will add all
  the files found in the directory to the floppy.

- `floppy_dirs` (array of strings) - A list of directories to place onto
  the floppy disk recursively. This is similar to the `floppy_files` option
  except that the directory structure is preserved. This is useful for when
  your floppy disk includes drivers or if you just want to organize it's
  contents as a hierarchy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?, and \[\]) are allowed.

- `floppy_label` (string) - The label to use for the floppy disk that
  is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for cloud-init,
  Kickstart or other early initialization tools, which can benefit from labelled floppy disks.
  By default, the floppy label will be 'packer'.

- `guest_os_type` (string) - The guest OS type being installed. By default
  this is "other", but you can get _dramatic_ performance improvements by
  setting this to the proper value. To view all available values for this run
  `prlctl create x --distribution list`. Setting the correct value hints to
  Parallels Desktop how to optimize the virtual hardware to work best with
  that operating system.

- `hard_drive_interface` (string) - The type of controller that the hard
  drives are attached to, defaults to "sata". Valid options are "sata", "ide",
  and "scsi".

- `host_interfaces` (array of strings) - A list of which interfaces on the
  host should be searched for a IP address. The first IP address found on one
  of these will be used as `{{ .HTTPIP }}` in the `boot_command`. Defaults to
  \["en0", "en1", "en2", "en3", "en4", "en5", "en6", "en7", "en8", "en9",
  "ppp0", "ppp1", "ppp2"\].

- `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an
  HTTP server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that
  will be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
  kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP server
  will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be available
  as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail below.

- `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (number) - These are the minimum and
  maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the
  `http_directory`. Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose
  a randomly available port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want
  to force the HTTP server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum
  port the same. By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

- `memory` (number) - The amount of memory to use for building the VM in
  megabytes. Defaults to `512` megabytes.

- `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
  resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
  If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
  is executed. This directory must not exist or be empty prior to running
  the builder. By default this is "output-BUILDNAME" where "BUILDNAME" is the
  name of the build.

- `parallels_tools_guest_path` (string) - The path in the virtual machine to
  upload Parallels Tools. This only takes effect if `parallels_tools_mode`
  is "upload". This is a [configuration
  template](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine) that has a single
  valid variable: `Flavor`, which will be the value of
  `parallels_tools_flavor`. By default this is `prl-tools-{{.Flavor}}.iso`
  which should upload into the login directory of the user.

- `parallels_tools_mode` (string) - The method by which Parallels Tools are
  made available to the guest for installation. Valid options are "upload",
  "attach", or "disable". If the mode is "attach" the Parallels Tools ISO will
  be attached as a CD device to the virtual machine. If the mode is "upload"
  the Parallels Tools ISO will be uploaded to the path specified by
  `parallels_tools_guest_path`. The default value is "upload".

- `prlctl` (array of array of strings) - Custom `prlctl` commands to execute
  in order to further customize the virtual machine being created. The value
  of this is an array of commands to execute. The commands are executed in the
  order defined in the template. For each command, the command is defined
  itself as an array of strings, where each string represents a single
  argument on the command-line to `prlctl` (but excluding `prlctl` itself).
  Each arg is treated as a [configuration
  template](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine), where the `Name`
  variable is replaced with the VM name. More details on how to use `prlctl`
  are below.

- `prlctl_post` (array of array of strings) - Identical to `prlctl`, except
  that it is run after the virtual machine is shutdown, and before the virtual
  machine is exported.

- `prlctl_version_file` (string) - The path within the virtual machine to
  upload a file that contains the `prlctl` version that was used to create
  the machine. This information can be useful for provisioning. By default
  this is ".prlctl_version", which will generally upload it into the
  home directory.

- `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down the
  machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
  string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine.

- `sound` (boolean) - Specifies whether to enable the sound device when
  building the VM. Defaults to `false`.

- `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing the
  `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down. If it
  doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout is
  "5m", or five minutes.

- `skip_compaction` (boolean) - Virtual disk image is compacted at the end of
  the build process using `prl_disk_tool` utility (except for the case that
  `disk_type` is set to `plain`). In certain rare cases, this might corrupt
  the resulting disk image. If you find this to be the case, you can disable
  compaction using this configuration value.

- `usb` (boolean) - Specifies whether to enable the USB bus when building
  the VM. Defaults to `false`.

- `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the PVM directory for the new
  virtual machine, without the file extension. By default this is
  "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the name of the build.

## Boot Command

The `boot_command` configuration is very important: it specifies the keys to
type when the virtual machine is first booted in order to start the OS
installer. This command is typed after `boot_wait`, which gives the virtual
machine some time to actually load the ISO.

As documented above, the `boot_command` is an array of strings. The strings are
all typed in sequence. It is an array only to improve readability within the
template.

The boot command is "typed" character for character (using the Parallels
Virtualization SDK, see [Parallels Builder](/docs/builders/parallels))
simulating a human actually typing the keyboard.

@include 'builders/boot-command.mdx'

Example boot command. This is actually a working boot command used to start an
Ubuntu 12.04 installer:

```text
[
  "<esc><esc><enter><wait>",
  "/install/vmlinuz noapic ",
  "preseed/url=http://{{ .HTTPIP }}:{{ .HTTPPort }}/preseed.cfg ",
  "debian-installer=en_US auto locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us ",
  "hostname={{ .Name }} ",
  "fb=false debconf/frontend=noninteractive ",
  "keyboard-configuration/modelcode=SKIP keyboard-configuration/layout=USA ",
  "keyboard-configuration/variant=USA console-setup/ask_detect=false ",
  "initrd=/install/initrd.gz -- <enter>;"
]
```

For more examples of various boot commands, see the sample projects from our
[community templates page](/community-tools#templates).

## prlctl Commands

In order to perform extra customization of the virtual machine, a template can
define extra calls to `prlctl` to perform.
[prlctl](http://download.parallels.com/desktop/v9/ga/docs/en_US/Parallels%20Command%20Line%20Reference%20Guide.pdf)
is the command-line interface to Parallels Desktop. It can be used to configure
the advanced virtual machine options.

Extra `prlctl` commands are defined in the template in the `prlctl` section. In the
example below `prlctl` is used to explicitly enable the adaptive hypervisor, and
disable 3d acceleration:

```json
{
  "prlctl": [
    ["set", "{{.Name}}", "--3d-accelerate", "off"],
    ["set", "{{.Name}}", "--adaptive-hypervisor", "on"]
  ]
}
```

The value of `prlctl` is an array of commands to execute. These commands are
executed in the order defined. So in the above example, 3d acceleration will be disabled
first, followed by the command which enables the adaptive hypervisor.

Each command itself is an array of strings, where each string is an argument to
`prlctl`. Each argument is treated as a [template engine](/docs/templates/legacy_json_templates/engine). The only available
variable is `Name` which is replaced with the unique name of the VM, which is
required for many `prlctl` calls.
