docs-partials/builder/parallels/macvm/Config-not-required.mdx, before:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in builder/parallels/macvm/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `boot_screen_config` (parallelscommon.BootScreensConfig) - Screens and it's boot configs
  A screen is considered matched if all the matching strings are present in the screen.
  The first matching screen will be considered & boot config of that screen will be used.
  If matching strings are empty, then it is considered as empty screen,
  which will be considered when none of the other screens are matched (You can use this screen to -
  make system wait for some time / execute a common boot command etc.).
  If more than one empty screen is found, then it is considered as an error.

- `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the MACVM directory for the new
  virtual machine, without the file extension. By default this is
  "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the name of the build.

- `reassign_mac` (bool) - If this is "false" the MAC address of the first
  NIC will reused when imported else a new MAC address will be generated
  by Parallels. Defaults to "false".

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in builder/parallels/macvm/config.go; -->

Commit message:

Add support for tesseract library for OCR
VisionAPI does not work well in macOS 13 or older VMs screenshots,
so this option gives user an option choose from tesseract/vision.

docs-partials/builder/parallels/macvm/Config-not-required.mdx, after:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the Config struct in builder/parallels/macvm/config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `boot_screen_config` (parallelscommon.BootScreensConfig) - Screens and it's boot configs
  A screen is considered matched if all the matching strings are present in the screen.
  The first matching screen will be considered & boot config of that screen will be used.
  If matching strings are empty, then it is considered as empty screen,
  which will be considered when none of the other screens are matched (You can use this screen to -
  make system wait for some time / execute a common boot command etc.).
  If more than one empty screen is found, then it is considered as an error.

- `ocr_library` (string) - OCR library to use. Two options are currently supported: "tesseract" and "vision".
  "tesseract" uses the Tesseract OCR library to recognize text. A manual installation of -
  Tesseract is required for this to work.
  "vision" uses the Apple Vision library to recognize text, which is included in macOS. It might -
  cause problems in macOS 13 or older VMs.
  Defaults to "vision".

- `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the MACVM directory for the new
  virtual machine, without the file extension. By default this is
  "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the name of the build.

- `reassign_mac` (bool) - If this is "false" the MAC address of the first
  NIC will reused when imported else a new MAC address will be generated
  by Parallels. Defaults to "false".

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the Config struct in builder/parallels/macvm/config.go; -->
